Thought Questions
1. You could use the method "nextInt" on a Random object to produce a random number between 1 and 1001, and then write an if statement which assigns the number of coins to be 3 if the output of the method is between 1 and 500, 4 if between 501 and 750, etc. This would affect the type of game possible to be played -- favoring a smaller number of coins (and probably game board).
2. If you guarantee that there are no sequences of coins longer than 2, then the game can't be won instantly. You could determine the number n possible moves by counting the number of spaces each coin must move to end up in its final spot. For example, coin number 3 (let's say at array index 5) will have to end up in array index 2 in order for the game to end. So it will move a total of 3 spaces. To guarantee a game will have n possible moves, a pre-determined n could be used to determine the number of spaces each coin will begin from its final location.
3. You want to make your moves such that it forces the other player to make the second to last move. Since the a player must move a coin at least 1 space on their turn, if there is one coin not in sequence, and it's two spaces away from where it needs to be, the player whose turn it is should move the coin one space. Another simple example is to plan that same move three or 4 moves in advance. Say there are two coins not in sequence: one of them is one move away from its final spot, the other two moves away. If it's your turn, you should move the coin that is two moves away one closer.
4. The computer would play every possible combination of moves in the game at the beginning of each turn and make the move which would guarantee victory, or bring it closest to victory. If this took up too much space, it would make random moves until there were only n number of possible combinations left, and simulate each of those combinations to determine which one would bring victory.
5. First, I would get rid of the if statement which checks if a move would make two coins pass each other because it would no longer be against the rules. I would also need to change the way in which I check if the game has been won because I currently do that by asking if the board array has numCoins elements which correspond to its index + 1. This doesn't work because that version of the game allows the coins to end up out-of-order at the end of the game. I would also need to get rid of an if statement which checks if a coin has another to its right because in this version of the game, that coin can still move.
